Access Specifiers and Constructors in C++ :
-------------------------------------------

Access Specifiers

Access specifiers in C++ are used to control the accessibility of class members (data members and member functions). 
C++ provides three access specifiers: public, private, and protected.

Public :

Members declared as public are accessible from anywhere in the program.
They can be accessed inside the class, outside the class, and in derived classes. 
Public members are mainly used to define the interface of a class.

Private :

Members declared as private are accessible only within the same class. 
They cannot be accessed from outside the class or by derived classes. 
In C++, private is the default access specifier. Private members help in data hiding and security.

Protected :

Members declared as protected are accessible within the class and its derived classes, 
but not accessible outside the class. 
Protected access is mainly used in inheritance.

Comparison of Access Specifiers :
---------------------------------

Access Specifier	Inside Class	Outside Class	Derived Class
----------------    ------------    -------------   -------------
Public	                Yes	              Yes	       Yes
Protected	            Yes	               No	       Yes
Private	                Yes	               No	       No

Constructors in C++ :

A constructor is a special member function of a class that is used to initialize objects. 
It is called automatically when an object of the class is created. 
A constructor has the same name as the class and no return type.

Types of Constructors :-

1. Default Constructor
A constructor that takes no parameters.

2. Parameterized Constructor
A constructor that takes parameters to initialize data members with specific values.

3. Constructor Overloading
When a class has more than one constructor with different parameter lists.

Rules of Constructors
---------------------

Name must be the same as the class name
No return type (not even void)
Called automatically when an object is created
Used for object initialization
Constructors can be overloaded

Characteristics of Access Specifiers and Constructors in C++ :
--------------------------------------------------------------

Characteristics of Public Access Specifier :-

Members are accessible from anywhere in the program
Can be accessed inside and outside the class
Can be accessed by derived (child) classes
Used to define the interface of a class
Helps in object interaction

Characteristics of Private Access Specifier :-

Members are accessible only within the class
Cannot be accessed outside the class
Cannot be accessed by derived classes
Provides data hiding and security
It is the default access specifier in C++

Characteristics of Protected Access Specifier :-

Members are accessible within the class
Can be accessed by derived classes
Cannot be accessed outside the class
Mainly used in inheritance
Provides controlled access to class data
Characteristics of Constructors
Special member function of a class
Name is same as the class name
Has no return type
Called automatically when an object is created
Used to initialize objects
Can be default or parameterized
Supports constructor overloading
Improves object initialization and reliability